So let's start with exchanges.
Exchanges are basically the actual am Cupie elements where messages are sent.
At first just as we saw with the previous picture they take a message and route it into one or more
cues.
And this is a key concept.
You can just send a message to an exchange and from that exchange your message can be routed to a single
queue or multiple cues.
And this is a great feature of rabbit.
Q And routing algorithm decides where to send messages from exchange routing algorithm is built into
rabit MQ and when you provide the configuration of your exchange to route messages to the queues that
you're interested in those messages are properly delivered to the Qs that you wanted to send.
Simple as that.
And these routing algorithms depend on the Xchange type and rules called as bindings these bindings
are the actual configurations that I was just talking about when you configure your bindings for exchanges
to cues you tie them somehow.
And when you want to send a message your message is first getting to the Xchange and after the exchange
your message is being delivered to a queue using the binding configuration.
This is where the tying glue.
This is where the action going on within the exchange and the queue bindings are simply used to bind
exchanges to queues for message delivery.
This is the key concept.
Just as I was talking with the previous ballpoints here bindings are the glues to halt exchanges and
queues all together to deliver your messages to the consumers.
There are simply four exchange types and first up is direct exchange direct exchange is simply an empty
string or am Cupie that direct direction for any exchange.
This is basically the default exchange that I was talking about in our previous slides in previous lectures.
This is where the messages are delivered.
Then you say no binding or no configuration to your exchange or que.
After that we have found out the exchange into default.
It is defined as an Cupie Dalfin out as the name suggests.
For now the exchanges are being used as the message distribution to everywhere for all the bindings
that your exchange has.
Your messages are being spread out all the queues with your bindings.
This is simply a final exchange a topic exchange is being defined as an adult that topic as default
and of course you can choose the topic that you want to send.
The topic exchange a key point in the topic exchange is you define a topic and you send your message
using that topic.
Let's suppose you're running a e-commerce site and your customer just purchased an item from your store
and you want to notify some other part of your system about this customer purchase and you have a topic
named as customer purchased and when you send your message with the topic exchange with this topic your
message is being delivered to the Conservative Party over your messaging system.
So topic exchange is simply like the specific way of delivering messages in an Cupie.
Finally we have header's exchange headboards exchange are basically the way to exchange headers with
messages in AM Cupie And of course with rabid MQ you exchange messages and you want to just maybe exchange
your headers with other messages and other queues and exchanges or maybe other consumers.
This is the way to exchange messages for headers in rabbit named Q And for the default you can use and
Cupie up match or and keep the data headers and some specific or custom header that you want to provide.